all right look this professional video
game player cheese speedrunning
basically put up a challenge to me he
basically said to me if I'm so confident
in making these proclamations about the
meaning of life about what it means to
lead a meaningful life why don't I just
come out and say it and you know I
sympathize with the situation he's in
but there is obviously an undercurrent
in much of what he has to say to me
where he feels who am I to judge what
he's doing with his life as meaningless
now look I've made videos in the past
directly answering the question of what
is the meaning of life and what does it
mean to lead a meaningful life but in
these kinds of man to man face to face
situations most of the judgments we have
to make are subjective and relative to
the situation that we're in in such a
way that we never really need to take it
that far we all know on some level what
matters here is not my idea of what it
is to lead a meaningful life it's his
idea
it's what I can get him to agree to do
you know what I think cheese already
fundamentally agrees with me right
I think she's knows that playing the
same video game again and again and
again for 80 hours a week he he
protested against my saying 40 hours a
week he said get on my level that he
plays the game for 80 hours a week
playing Super Mario 64 playing something
that was designed as children's
entertainment for 80 hours a week what
what do we have to compare that to to
come to practical real-world conclusions
about the meaning of life or leading a
meaningful life let me ask you something
geez what if you decided that in the
next couple of years you were going to
go to medical school and study to become
a medical doctor
let's just say you weren't entirely
confident that you would be able to get
into university that you'd be able to do
that but you're gonna start studying now
you're gonna start taking 40 hours a
week to sit down with the textbooks and
memorize them memorize what you need to
know to become a medical doctor
now let's not glorify our glamorizes
what are you gonna memorize the name of
every bone in the human hand the Latin
names for a lot of the different muscles
that comprise the body right you're
gonna have to learn a lot of organic
chemistry you're gonna have to memorize
a lot of really boring facts to go to
medical school but what I'm saying to
you here is maybe you're not in medical
school maybe you're just thinking about
it for the future and you decide to
start studying to that level to that
extent and maybe you're partly studied
because you want to decide if you're
really committed to this you want to
decide if going to medical school will
make you happy or make you miserable you
want to decide if this is meaningful
enough that you care about this enough
to really put in the effort to really
memorize you know these these boring
facts okay let's not let's not glamorize
what it means to be a doctor being a
medical doctor it's a lot of manual
labor it's a lot of incredibly boring
and repetitious tasks day in and day out
when I was doing humanitarian work
myself in Cambodia and Laos
I met medical doctors who had
volunteered to go out to these countries
also Myanmar Burma next door I met
medical doctors who volunteered to go
there and if you got them in an honest
moment a lot of them would say to you
yeah they volunteered to do humanitarian
work in a third-world country because it
was so boring it was so boring and so
meaningless to be a medical doctor in
Europe in Western Europe was it yeah
they did all this hard work they learned
all this medicine and then they sit in
an office and every day they just have
elderly people coming
in complaining about diarrhea and that's
it's like predominantly medical care for
elderly people with the same simple
illnesses the same simple ailments again
and again and again of course if you're
a specialized doctor you know if you do
heart attacks you just deal with art
attacks if you help women who are
pregnant giving birth you just deal with
that one problem people with that who
are coming to the hospital for that one
reason or coming to your offset with one
reason day after day after day again and
again it's very repetitious it is in
many obvious ways quite meaningless and
quite depressing to be a medical doctor
or even to go through med school to
become a doctor but you cheese you know
you know it's way more meaningful than
what you're doing right now you wouldn't
even debate this with me and you know
what cheese I think you know at one
point is video he said that a lot of the
things I was saying his own father had
said to him in the past
you know what cheese I think your father
would say to you today he would say to
you today look kid you're smart why
don't you go back to university and
become a medical doctor if you show this
video to your father you talk about this
with your with your father if you say
you know dad this guy on the internet he
was saying today that what I should
really do is stop playing video games
for 80 hours a week I let's just cut it
now let's just say cheese let's say you
should take 40 hours a week and study
the textbooks for medical school you
should start preparing to go to medical
school to become a doctor this guy in
the internet said I should do that
because that would be more meaningful I
think your father would agree cheese and
I think you would agree that's why
you're weak in this argument that's why
you're defensive that's why you have to
get hostile and talk about how much
money you make playing video games
we both know money doesn't matter if you
if you could make more money playing
video games than being a medical doctor
that doesn't mean playing video games is
a meaningful life not compared to be who
medical doctor right how is being a
medical doctor meaningful its meaningful
in two ways because you make yourself
into a better person right and you make
the world a better place
really simple criteria for what it is to
lead a meaningful life you can make a
lot of money working in a slaughterhouse
you can make a lot of money standing
there with a kind of fancy chainsaw
carving up cow carcasses everyday
gruesome work do you think that makes
you into a better person do you think
that makes the world a better place no
don't come to me and say oh but I make a
ton of money working in a slaughterhouse
maybe so maybe so we were talking about
the meaning of life here we weren't
talking about how to make the mutton the
most money you can make a lot of money
out of drug-dealing you can make a lot
of money at a real estate you can make a
lot of money working at a slaughterhouse
no doubt okay you want to come to me
talk about the meaning of life you've
got to compare video games to something
else and right now for you at age 24
we're making the comparison between you
buckling down and doing speedruns in
mario 64 and you buckling down and
hitting the textbooks to study medical
science prepare to become a medical
doctor and you know what studied medical
science studying those text books is so
meaningful it's so meaningful that even
if you quit or even if you fail you
would look back on that as a meaningful
time in your life is something really
great you did alright if you did this
preparation if you started memorizing
this stuff and learning this stuff and
then let's let's say you gave up or the
university rejects you for some reason
you decide you can't go through with me
you know you're afraid of blood or
something there's some reason why you
stopped doing it you would still look
back and say wow remember that one year
where I spent the whole year 40 hours a
week really studying those medical
doctors learning about chemistry and
history of medical science and human
anatomy and the progress of diseases wow
that's something meaningful I'm going to
carry with me for the rest of my life
and if you really did memorize that
stuff you would have that knowledge you
would have that wisdom with you you
would wear it you would inhabit it for
the rest of your life there would be
something positive and meaningful but
meaningful for you forever even if the
project was a failure even if you failed
right we all know that's not true about
video games cheese speedrunning you are
the one person in a
who makes money makes a little bit of
money out of playing video games okay
the percentage of athletes at the gym
who make money out of exercise is much
much higher than the percentage of
gamers who make money out of video
gaming okay and you know cheese spending
80 hours a week playing video games it's
hard to justify that as meaningful even
if you make money even if you win and if
you don't make money and if you fail
you've already conceded the point cheese
it would be it would be horrendously
meetings to be a terrible source of
regret in your life right these are the
kinds of practical questions we've got
but the meaning of life when I was a kid
I played video games all right you know
what this is this is a high school level
history textbook in Chinese okay right
now for me at age 41 this this textbook
still has things to teach me high school
level textbook it's not that
sophisticated I think you saw there's a
Napoleon on the cover right so this is
gonna tell the history of Napoleon at a
level appropriate for Chinese high
school students who maybe have never
even heard of the point it's not gonna
talk about Napoleon and his attempt to
conquer Egypt it's not gonna talk about
Napoleon and the war he fought in Haiti
in the Caribbean it's not gonna question
profoundly Napoleon's position on
slavery it's not gonna reflect on the
various attempts to assassinate Napoleon
it's not going to explore
philosophically the extent to which
Napoleon was an enemy of democracy
someone who destroyed democracy someone
who subvert 'add the hopes of the French
Revolution and of the Directorate the
Revolution pretty as opposed to the
extent to which he sincerely was someone
who wanted democracy but failed along
the way and getting there in achieving
understanding it's not gonna ask those
profound questions about democracy
slavery or any the rest of it okay but
this book even at this shallow simple
high school level
a lot to teach me all right I would
still benefit I'd still become a better
person now if I memorized the facts in
this textbook instead of memorizing the
layout of the levels in Mario 64 instead
of memorizing the videogame zillion for
the Sega Master System and when I was a
child that was a video game I played
enough that I had all the levels
memorized that video game had secret
lasers lasers you couldn't see at the
start of the game you could learn where
they were because if you step through
the laser it would set off an alarm kind
of like a really simple stealth game
from the 8-bit video game era I
memorized where all the lasers were in
that game so I could move around the
game I could I could probably speed run
that game still to this day all right
but the point is not just in some
abstract sense that it would be more
meaningful to memorize a textbook like
this even given that it's propaganda you
know if I read this book I'm gonna learn
the Chinese perspective on history I'm
gonna learn how shiny z' people think
about you know Napoleon and slavery in
the United States of America and all
these issues it's not going to be the
same kind of propaganda in an American
textbook or a Spanish textbook or a
French textbook okay the point is not
just that this is more meaningful or
this is part of a meaningful life in an
abstract sense okay I would be a better
person today if I had taken 40 hours a
week to memorize my high school history
textbook instead of spending however
many hours playing video games and still
today I mean this would be a huge
language challenge but I would learn the
way people discuss these things in
Chinese I would learn the Chinese
vocabulary for slavery and democracy
that'd be very intellectually
stimulating okay but still today for
youichi's I think you know I think you
feel it if you sat down and spent 40
hours a week memorizing a high school
history textbook that would here and now
even at your current age at age 20
four would make you a better person and
then you would live your whole life with
that knowledge memorized you would
inhabit that knowledge you would be able
to muster and make use of that knowledge
day in and day out at a moment's notice
you would memorize the exact dates in
history when different events happen you
would have memorized certain political
and historical facts from this general
even if it was at such a basic level and
you know you know with just a few weeks
if you're really doing 40 hours a week
80 hours a week you know what levels of
learning what levels of erudition you're
capable of whether it's an English
Spanish or Chinese you know that if you
put the work in you could do it okay it
would be a more meaningful life for you
it would be part of you becoming a
better person and it would enable you to
make a positive difference in the world
in a way that you never can sitting at a
couch holding a Nintendo 64 controller
acting out a fantasy from your childhood
playing a game made for children's
entertainment as a grown adult again and
again and again get uncomfortable get
ambitious yearn to be a better person
yearn to make the world a better place
even if you don't have to do it get
hungry for a meaningful life even if you
don't know what the meaning of life is I
can totally accept that being a medical
doctor is meaningless but not compared
to playing Nintendo 64 games I think my
own high school history textbooks were
propaganda and they were bullshitting
this textbook - it probably pissed me
off the more I'd read of it I'd hate it
I would hate it and say this is just
propaganda this is just this
isn't really being honest this isn't
really examining the issues of who
Napoleon was and why he matters in
history I'd probably think it's terribly
hypocritical and dishonest I still have
a lot to learn from it I still have the
humility to recognize there's a lot for
me to learn and there would be a lot
here that'd be valuable for me
to memorize and carry with me for the
rest of my life right get uncomfortable
get ambitious yearn to be more do more
no more even if you don't know what the
destination you're working towards is
yet